# EOSC 442 Final Project##### Inter- and intra-regional linear correlation analysis between monthly average temperature, monthly average sea level, and Oceanic Niño Index (ONI) at Vancouver, BC and St. John's, NL over the 1950-2007 periodWe are investigating how temperature change is affecting sea level and snow precipitation in Vancouver, BC and St. John’s NL, and how these effects differ between the two cities. There has been an increase in global climate change, which will raise mean sea levels because of the thermal expansion of oceans and melting of glaciers and ice caps (Shaw et al., 2008). In Canada, sensitive regions impacted include several parts of the Maritime provinces and areas of the British Columbia coast. Impacts include higher intensities of coastal reorganizations (i.e. overwashing, erosion) (Shaw et al., 2008). Increasing temperatures are also shown to decrease winter precipitation and snowfall with faster melting snow (Newton et al., 2021). Therefore, we will analyze possible correlations between temperature to sea and snow levels that could be used in the future to determine the importance of climate change and its environmental impacts. ### Research questions1.  Is there a significant linear positive correlation between monthly average temperature at Vancouver Harbour CS and monthly average sea level at Vancouver Station 7735 between the years 1950-2007?2.  Is there a significant linear positive correlation between monthly average temperature at St John’s station A and monthly average sea level at St John station 905 between the years 1950-2007?3.  Is there a significant linear positive correlation between monthly average temperature at Vancouver Harbour CS and monthly average temperature at St John’s station A between the years 1950-2007?4.  Is there a significant positive linear correlation between monthly sea level at Vancouver Station 7735 and monthly sea level at St John’s station 905 between the years 1950-2007?5.  Is there a significant linear positive correlation between monthly average temperature at Vancouver Harbour CS and ONI between the years 1950-2007?6.  Is there a significant linear positive correlation between monthly average temperature at St John’s station A and ONI between the years 1950-2007?### Data- [Vancouver Sea Level](https://www.isdm-gdsi.gc.ca/isdm-gdsi/twl-mne/inventory-inventaire/sd-ds-eng.asp?no=7735&user=isdm-gdsi&region=MEDS) data collected at Vancouver Station 7735 between 1909 and 2024. Source: Government of Canada.    - Vancouver Temperature ([1925-2007](https://climate.weather.gc.ca/climate_data/monthly_data_e.html?hlyRange=1976-01-20%7C2025-01-28&dlyRange=1925-11-01%7C2025-01-28&mlyRange=1925-01-01%7C2007-02-01&StationID=888&Prov=BC&urlExtension=_e.html&searchType=stnName&optLimit=yearRange&StartYear=1840&EndYear=2025&selRowPerPage=25&Line=1&searchMethod=contains&txtStationName=vancouver+harbour&timeframe=3&time=LST&Month=1&Day=28&Year=1975#)) and [(1976-2025)](https://climate.weather.gc.ca/climate_data/hourly_data_e.html?hlyRange=1976-01-20%7C2025-01-28&dlyRange=1925-11-01%7C2025-01-28&mlyRange=1925-01-01%7C2007-02-01&StationID=888&Prov=BC&urlExtension=_e.html&searchType=stnName&optLimit=specDate&StartYear=1840&EndYear=2022&selRowPerPage=25&Line=9&searchMethod=contains&Month=1&Day=20&txtStationName=vancouver&timeframe=1&Year=1976) data collectedat Vancouver Harbour CS station. Source: Government of Canada.- St. John [Temperature Station A](https://climate.weather.gc.ca/climate_data/monthly_data_e.html?hlyRange=1953-01-01%7C2012-03-20&dlyRange=1942-01-01%7C2012-03-19&mlyRange=1942-01-01%7C2012-03-01&StationID=6720&Prov=NL&urlExtension=_e.html&searchType=stnProv&optLimit=yearRange&StartYear=1840&EndYear=2025&selRowPerPage=25&Line=282&lstProvince=NL&timeframe=3&time=LST&Month=3&Day=20&Year=1986#) and [Temperature Station A 2012-2025](https://climate.weather.gc.ca/climate_data/hourly_data_e.html?hlyRange=2012-03-20%7C2025-01-28&dlyRange=2012-03-20%7C2025-01-28&mlyRange=%7C&StationID=50089&Prov=NL&urlExtension=_e.html&searchType=stnName&optLimit=yearRange&StartYear=1840&EndYear=2025&selRowPerPage=25&Line=1&searchMethod=contains&txtStationName=St.+John&timeframe=1&time=LST&time=LST&Year=2012&Month=3&Day=20#) data collected at St John's station A/St John's International station A between 1950 and 2020. Source: Government of Canada.- [St. John Sea Level](https://www.isdm-gdsi.gc.ca/isdm-gdsi/twl-mne/inventory-inventaire/sd-ds-eng.asp?no=65&user=isdm-gdsi&region=MEDS#digital) data collected at St. John's station 65 between 1950 and 2020. Source: Government of Canada.- [Oceanic Niño Index (ONI)](https://psl.noaa.gov/data/correlation/oni.data) data from 1950 to present. Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).